
A SAMPLE GRAMMAR

This appendix documents the grammar written for PARSIFAL as of July 1977. This
grammar has served two purposes; it been a testbed for grammar rule development,
and it is also the grammar used by the natural language understanding system
which serves as front end for the MIT Al Lab Personal Assistant Project. The
NP-level rules in this grammar typically were written for the particular needs
of the Personal Assistant, and for these rules I claim little generality; the
clause-level rules, on the other hand, typically attempt to capture significant
linguistic generalizations. Indeed, wherever a generalization has been missed,
the grammar will typically so note.

I make no claims for the size of this grammar; less than two months work has
gone into the coding of this particular set of rules. It should be noted,
however, that much of this grammar derives from an earlier grammar written for
an earlier parser of the same sort. This grammar was the product of
approximately four months effort. Much of the grammar for this earlier parser
has yet to be recoded, since it has not been relevant to the PA project.

Special effort has gone into assuring that the clause-level grammar is robust; I
have attempted to test the grammar on fairly complex cases involving the
interaction of many different rules. The first section of this appendix includes
an example set of sentences that the parser can handle; it should be clear to
the reader exactly what phenomena each sentence is attempting to test.  It
should be noted that there are elements of this grammar that are not reported on
in this document; these include the notion of Node Reactivation Rules (NR
Rules), and the PP attachment semantic tests. The CRULES in the grammar
interface the parser to the case frame mechanism; these are explained in
Appendix E. These facilities are all under development, and no claims are made
for any of them; they are included here for the sake of completeness.

A note about the running time of this parser is in order.

For this grammar, running in MACLISP [Moon 74] on the KA-10 version of the
PDP-10 computer, these sentences take less then 1 sec/word to parse, including
the time taken by the case frame interpreter documented in Appendix E. The
reader should note that because the parser operates strictly deterministically,
the time taken to parse any given sentence handled by this grammar is
approximately a linear function of the number of words in the sentence.

Some Example Sentences
These sentences were all successfully parsed by the grammar included in the next
section. This set of examples exercises only one portion of the clause level
grammar; it is an attempt to show that a range of complex linguistic phenomena
are handled robustly by the parser.

I told that boy that boys should do it.
The jar seems broken.
There seems to be a jar broken.
I wanted John to do it.
I want to do it.
I persuaded John to do it.
There seems to have been a meeting scheduled for friday.
Schedule a meeting for friday.
Is there a meeting scheduled for friday?
Does there seem to be a meeting scheduled for friday?
A meeting seems to have been scheduled for Friday.
I told the boy that I saw Sue.
I told Sue you would schedule the meeting.
I told the girl that you would schedule the meeting.
The boy who wanted to meet you scheduled the meeting.
The boy who met you scheduled the meeting.
The boy who you met scheduled the meeting.
The boy you met scheduled the meeting.

Who did John see?
Who broke the jar?
What did Bob give to Sue?
Who did Bob give the book?
Who did Bob give the book to?
What did Bob give Sue?
I promised John to do it.
Who did you say that Bill told?
You promised to give the book to John.
Who did you promise to give the book to?
Who did you promise to schedule the meeting?
Who did you say scheduled the meeting?
Who did you persuade to do it?
What did you give Sue yesterday?
Who did you give the book yesterday?
Who did you ask to schedule the meeting?
Who do you want to give a book to tomorrow?
Who did you want to give a book to Sue?
I gave the boy who you wanted to give the books
to three books.
Who did you prornise to give the book to tomorrow?
Who did you promise to give the book to Sue tomorrow?
